# Real Time Image Detection Application Using Deep CNN
This project involves image recognition which plays a crucial role in the field of computer vision. Popular Deep Convolutional Neural Networks (CNN) are majorly trained and tested against large-scale image datasets such as ImageNet, CIFAR10, CIFAR100, and MNIST. As part of this project, we created a new dataset which we hope that others will contribute to in the future. At macro level our project has three components: first, we created a data set which consists of approximately 5000 images of fingers counting from 1 to 5, secondly, we created a live detection platform which can classify a finger count through the webcam. Our CNN model was implemented in Python’s TensorFlow library and the live detection platform was implemented in MATLAB. Finally, we trained several popular CNNs such as AlexNet, ResNet50, and InceptionV4 on our dataset.
We also train AlexNet on our dataset in Matlab. By utilizing this deep CNN, we applied live detection through the webcam in Matlab which sometime is slow because of number of images in the dataset and GPU of our computer. However, it still manages to predict the finger counts with a good accuracy. At the end, we trained InceptionV4 and ResNet50 which are two popular DNNs on our proposed dataset. Normally training these networks on any datasets is so time consuming. However, using the concept of “Transfer Learning” for weight initialization made it computationally feasible for our systems. At epoch 6 they reach a very good accuracy of over 85%. We hope that people keep contributing to our dataset and it keeps evolving through the time.
You can see the live detection video here: https://youtu.be/Hu2gUIZqR5Q.
{To run the codes above, you will need ResNet50 and InceptionV4 weight initializations and the resized dataset. Please send me a message to get the link!}
